The Tesseract has awakened.
It is on a little world…
a human world.
They would wield its power…
but our ally knows its
workings as they never will.
He is ready to lead…
and our force…
our Chitauri…
will follow.
A world will be his.
The universe yours.
And the humans…
what can they do?
But burn!
All personnel.
The evacuation order has been confirmed.
Proceed your dedicated vehicle
for faster evacuation.
Is not a drill!
Emergency personnel.
Proceed your dedicated
vehicle for faster evacuation.
How bad is it?
That's the problem, sir.
We don't know.
Dr. Selvig read an energy surge
from the Tesseract four hours ago.
NASA didn't authorize Selvig
to go to test phase.
He wasn't testing it.
He wasn't even in the room.
Spontaneous event.
It just turned itself on?
Where are the energy levels now?
Climbing. When Selvig couldn't shut it down,
we ordered evac.
How long to get everyone out?
Campus should be clear
in the next half-hour.
Do better.
Sir, evacuation may be futile.
We should tell them to go back to sleep?
If we can't control the Tesseract's energy…
there may not be a minimum safe distance.
I need you to make sure the Phase 2
prototypes are shipped out.
Sir, is that really a priority right now?
Until such time as the world ends…
we will act as though it intends to spin on.
Clear out the tech below.
Every piece of Phase 2
on a truck and gone.
Yes, sir.
With me.
Talk to me, Doctor.
Director.
Is there anything we know for certain?
The Tesseract is misbehaving.
- Is that supposed to be funny?
- No, it's not funny at all.
The Tesseract is not only active, she's…
behaving.
I assume you pulled the plug.
She's an energy source.
We turn off the power,
she turns it back on.
If she reaches peak level…
We prepared for this, Doctor.
Harnessing energy from space.
But we don't have the harness.
My calculations are far from complete.
And she's throwing off
interference, radiation.
Nothing harmful,
low levels of gamma radiation.
That can be harmful.
Where's Agent Barton?
The Hawk?
Up in his nest, as usual.
Agent Barton, report.
I gave you this detail…
so you could keep
a close eye on things.
Well, I see better from a distance.
Have you seen anything
that might set this thing off?
Doctor, it's spiking again.
No one's come or gone.
And Selvig's clean.
No contacts, no IMs.
If there was any tampering,
sir, it wasn't at this end.
At this end?
Yeah, the Cube is a doorway
to the other end of space, right?
Doors open from both sides.
Not yet.
Sir, please put down the spear.
You have heart.
Please don't.
I still need that.
This doesn't have to get any messier.
Of course it does.
I've come too far for anything else.
I am Loki…
of Asgard.
And I am burdened
with glorious purpose.
Loki…
brother of Thor.
We have no quarrel with your people.
An ant has no quarrel with a boot.
Are you planning to step on us?
I come with glad tidings…
of a world made free.
Free from what?
Freedom.
Freedom is life's great lie.
Once you accept that…
in your heart…
you will know peace.
Yeah, you say peace…
I kind of think you mean the other thing.
Sir, Director Fury is stalling.
This place is about to blow…
and drop a hundred feet of rock on us.
He means to bury us.
Like the pharaohs of old.
He's right.
The portal is collapsing in on itself.
We've got maybe two minutes
before this goes critical.
Well, then.
I need these vehicles.
Who's that?
They didn't tell me.
Hill!
Do you copy?
Barton has turned.
They have the Tesseract!
Shut them down!
Let's go. No, no, no, leave it.
Leave it. Go!
We're clear upstairs, sir.
You need to go.
Director?
Director Fury, do you copy?
The Tesseract is with a hostile force.
I have men down.
Hill?
A lot of men still under.
I don't know how many survivors.
Sound a general call.
I want every living soul…
not working rescue
looking for that briefcase.
Roger that.
Coulson, get back to base.
This is a Level Seven.
As of right now…
we are at war.
What do we do?
You're at 1-14 Silensky Plaza, 3rd floor.
We have an F-22 exactly eight miles out.
Put the woman on the phone,
or I will blow up the block…
before you can make the lobby.
- We need you to come in.
- Are you kidding, I'm working.
This takes precedence.
I'm in the middle of an interrogation.
This moron is giving me everything.
I don't give everything.
Look, you can't pull me
out of this right now.
Natasha…
Barton's been compromised.
Let me put you on hold.
Where is Barton now?
- We don't know.
- But he's alive?
We think so.
I'll brief you on everything
when you get back.
But first, we need you
to talk to the big guy.
Coulson, you know that Stark trusts me
about as far as he can throw me.
I've got Stark.
You get the big guy.
You're a doctor.
Please.
You should've got paid up front, Banner.
You know, for a man who's supposed
to be avoiding stress…
you picked a hell of a place to settle.
Avoiding stress isn't the secret.
Then what is it?
Yoga?
You brought me to the edge of the city.
Smart.
I assume the whole place is surrounded.
Just you and me.
And your actress buddy?
Is she a spy, too?
They start that young?
I did.
Who are you?
Natasha Romanoff.
Are you here to kill me, Ms. Romanoff?
Because that's not going
to work out for everyone.
No, of course not.
I'm here on behalf of S.H.I.E.L.D.
S.H.I.E.L.D.
How did they find me?
We never lost you, Doctor.
We've kept our distance.
Even helped keep some other
interested parties off your scent.
Why?
Nick Fury seems to trust you.
But now we need you to come in.
What if I say no?
I'll persuade you.
And what if…
the other guy says no?
You've been more than
a year without an incident.
I don't think you want
to break that streak.
Well, I don't every time get what I want.
Doctor, we're facing a potential
global catastrophe.
Well, those I actively try to avoid.
This…
is the Tesseract.
It has the potential energy
to wipe out the planet.
What does Fury want me
to do, swallow it?
He wants you to find it.
It's been taken.
It emits a gamma signature
that's too weak for us to trace.
There's no one that knows
gamma radiation like you do.
If there was…
that's where I'd be.
So, Fury isn't after the monster?
Not that he's told me.
And he tells you everything?
Talk to Fury.
He needs you on this.
He needs me in a cage?
No one's going to put you in a…
Stop lying to me!
I'm sorry.
That was mean.
I just wanted to see what you'd do.
Why don't we…
do this the easy way…
where you don't use that…
and the other guy
doesn't make a mess.
Ok?
Natasha?
Stand down.
We're good here.
Just you and me.
This is out of line, Director.
You're dealing with forces
you can't control.
You ever been in a war, Councilman?
In a firefight?
Did you feel an overabundance of control?
You're saying that this Asgard
is declaring war on our planet?
Not Asgard.
Loki.
He can't be working alone.
What about the other one?
His brother.
Our intelligence says
Thor is not a hostile.
But he's worlds away.
We can't depend on him to help, either.
It's up to us.
Which is why you should be
focusing on Phase 2.
It was designed for exactly this…
Phase 2 isn't ready.
Our enemy is.
We need a response team.
The Avengers Initiative
was shut down.
This isn't about the Avengers.
We've seen the list.
You're running the world's greatest
covert security network…
and you're going to leave
the fate of the human race…
to a handful of freaks.
I'm not leaving anything to anyone.
We need a response team.
These people may be isolated,
unbalanced even…
but I believe with the right push…
they can be exactly what we need.
You believe?
War isn't won by sentiment, Director.
No, it's won by soldiers.
There's not enough time.
I got to put her in the water!
You won't be alone.
Oh, my God.
This guy is still alive!
Trouble sleeping?
I slept for 70 years, sir.
I think I've had my fill.
Then you should be out…
celebrating…
seeing the world.
When I went under,
the world was at war.
I wake up, they say we won.
They didn't say what we lost.
We've made some
mistakes along the way.
Some, very recently.
Are you here with a mission, sir?
I am.
Trying to get me back in the world?
Trying to save it.
HYDRA'S secret weapon.
Howard Stark fished that out of
the ocean when he was looking for you.
He thought what we think.
The Tesseract could be the key
to unlimited sustainable energy.
That's something the world sorely needs.
Who took it from you?
He's called Loki.
He's not from around here.
There's a lot we'll have to bring you up
to speed on if you're in.
The world has gotten even stranger
than you already know.
At this point, I doubt anything
would surprise me.
Ten bucks says you're wrong.
There's a debriefing packet waiting
for you back at your apartment.
Is there anything you can tell us about
the Tesseract that we ought to know now?
You should have left it in the ocean.
Good to go on this end.
The rest is up to you.
You disconnected
the transmission lines?
Are we off the grid?
Stark Tower is about to become a beacon
of self-sustaining clean energy.
Well, assuming the arc reactor takes
over and it actually works.
I assume.
Light her up.
How does it look?
Like Christmas, but with more me.
We've got to go wider on
the public awareness campaign.
You need to do some press.
I'm in DC tomorrow…
I'm working on the zoning
for the next three buildings.
Pepper, you're killing me.
The moment, remember?
Enjoy the moment.
Get in here and I will.
Sir, Agent Coulson of
S.H.I.E.L.D. is on the line.
I'm not in.
I'm actually out.
Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.
Grow aspine, Jarvis.
I got a date.
Levels are holding steady…
I think.
Of course they are.
I was directly involved.
Which brings me to my next question.
How does it feel to be a genius?
Well, I really wouldn't know, now would I?
What do you mean? All this…
came from you.
No all this, came from that.
Give yourself some credit.
Please.
Stark Tower is your baby.
Give yourself 12% of the credit.
12%?
An argument can be made for 15.
- 12% for my baby?
- Well I…
did do all the heavy lifting.
Literally, I lifted the heavy things.
And sorry, but the security snafu?
That was on you.
- My private elevator…
- You mean our elevator?
It was teeming with sweaty workmen.
I'm going to pay for that
comment about percentages…
in some subtle way later, aren't I?
It's not going to be that subtle.
I'll tell you what.
The next building is gonna say
Potts on the tower.
On the lease.
Call your mom can you bunk over?
Sir, the telephone.
I'm afraid my protocols
are being overridden.
Mr. Stark, we need to talk.
You have reached the life
model decoy of Tony Stark.
- Please leave a message.
- This is urgent.
Then leave it urgently.
Security breach.
It's on you.
Mr. Stark.
Phil! Come in.
Phil?
I can't stay.
His first name is Agent.
Come on in.
We're celebrating.
Which is why he can't stay.
We need you to look this over
as soon as possible.
I don't like being handed things.
That's fine, because I love
to be handed things.
So, let's trade.
Thank you.
Official consulting hours are between
8 and 5 every other Thursday.
This isn't a consultation.
Is this about the Avengers?
Which I know nothing about.
The Avengers Initiative was scrapped…
I thought and I didn't even qualify.
I didn't know that either.
Yeah apparently I'm volatile…
self-obsessed…
don't play well with others.
That I did know.
This isn't about personality
profiles anymore.
Whatever, Ms. Potts, got a second?
Half a moment.
You know, I thought we were
having a moment.
I was having 12% of a moment.
This seems serious.
Phil's pretty shaken.
How would you know if it's…
Why is he Phil?
What is all this?
This is…
This.
I'm going to take the jet to DC tonight.
Tomorrow.
You have homework.
You have a lot of homework.
Well, what if I didn't?
If you didn't?
Yeah.
You mean when you've finished?
Well…
Then…
Square deal. Fly safe.
Work hard.
So, any chance
you're driving by LaGuardia?
- I can drop you.
- Fantastic.
I want to hear about the cellist.
Is that still a thing?
She moved back to Portland.
What?
We're about 40 minutes
out from home base, sir.
So, this Dr. Banner was trying
to replicate the serum they used on me?
A lot of people were.
You were the world's first superhero.
Banner thought gamma radiation might hold
the key to unlocking Erskine's original formula.
Didn't really go his way, did it?
Not so much.
When he's not that thing, though,
the guy's like a Stephen Hawking.
He's like a smart person.
I got to say…
it's an honor to meet you…
officially.
I've sort of met you, I mean…
I watched you while
you were sleeping.
I mean, I was, I was present…
while you were unconscious…
from the ice.
You know, it's really just a…
just a huge honor
to have you on board.
This…
I hope I'm the man for the job.
Oh, you are.
Absolutely.
We made some modifications
to the uniform.
I had a little design input.
The uniform?
Aren't the stars and stripes a little…
old-fashioned?
With everything that's happening…
and the things that are about
to come to light…
people might just…
need a little old-fashioned.
The Chitauri grow restless.
Let them gird themselves.
I will lead them in the glorious battle.
Battle?
Against the meager might of Earth?
Glorious, not lengthy.
If your force is
as formidable as you claim.
You question us?
You question him…
he who put the scepter in your hand?
Who gave you ancient knowledge
and new purpose…
when you were cast out, defeated?
I was a king!
The rightful king of Asgard…
betrayed.
Your ambition is little…
and born of childish need.
We look beyond the Earth to the greater
worlds the Tesseract will unveil.
You don't have the Tesseract yet.
I don't threaten.
But until I open the doors…
until your force is mine to command…
you are but words.
You will have your war, Asgardian.
If you fail…
if the Tesseract is kept from us…
there will be no realm…
no barren moon…
no crevice where he cannot find you.
You think you know pain?
He will make you long…
for something sweet as pain.
Stow the captain's gear.
Yes, sir.
Agent Romanoff…
Captain Rogers.
Ma'am.
Hi.
They need you on the bridge.
They're starting the face-trace.
See you there.
It was quite the buzz around here,
finding you in the ice.
I thought Coulson was gonna swoon.
Did he ask you to sign
his Captain America trading cards yet?
Trading cards?
They're vintage.
He's very proud.
Dr. Banner.
Yeah, hi.
They told me you would be coming.
Word is, you can find the Cube.
Is that the only word on me?
Only word I care about.
It must be strange for you, all of this.
Well, this is actually kind of familiar.
Gentlemen, you might want
to step inside in a minute.
It's going to get a little hard to breathe.
Flight crew, secure the deck.
Is this a submarine?
Really?
They want me in a submerged,
pressurized, metal container?
No, no, this is much worse.
Hover power check complete.
Position cyclic.
Increase collective to 8%.
Preparing for maximum
performance takeoff.
Increase output to capacity.
Power plant performing at capacity.
We are clear.
All engines operating.
S.H.I.E.L.D. Emergency
Protocol 193.6 in effect.
We are at level, sir.
Good.
Let's vanish.
Engage retro-reflection panels.
Reflection panels engaged.
Gentlemen.
Doctor, thank you for coming.
Thanks for asking nicely.
So, how long am I staying?
Once we get our hands
on the Tesseract…
you're in the wind.
Where are you with that?
We're sweeping every wirelessly
accessible camera on the planet.
Cell phones, laptops.
If it's connected to a satellite…
it's eyes and ears for us.
That's still not gonna find them in time.
You have to narrow your field.
How many spectrometers
do you have access to?
- How many are there?
- Call every lab you know.
Tell them to put the spectrometers on
the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays.
I'll rough out a tracking algorithm,
basic cluster recognition.
At least we could rule out a few places.
Do you have somewhere
for me to work?
Agent Romanoff…
could you show Dr. Banner
to his laboratory, please?
You're gonna love it, Doc.
We got all the toys.
Put it over there.
Where did you find all these people?
S.H.I.E.L.D. has no shortage
of enemies, Doctor.
Is this the stuff you need?
Yeah, iridium.
It's found in meteorites.
It forms anti-protons.
It's very hard to get hold of.
Especially if S.H.I.E.L.D.
knows you need it.
Well, I didn't know.
Hey!
The Tesseract has shown me
so much it's…
more than knowledge, it's truth.
I know.
What did it show you, Agent Barton?
My next target.
Tell me what you need.
I need a distraction.
And an eyeball.
I mean, if it's not too much trouble.
No, no. It's fine.
It's a vintage set.
It took me a couple of years
to collect them all.
Near mint.
Slight foxing around the edges, but…
We got a hit, a 67% match.
Wait.
Cross match, 79%.
Location?
Stuttgart, Germany.
28 Königstrasse.
He's not exactly hiding.
Captain…
you're up.
Kneel before me.
I said…
Kneel
Is not this simpler?
Is this not your natural state?
It's the unspoken truth of humanity…
that you crave subjugation.
The bright lure of freedom…
diminishes your life's joy
in a mad scramble for power…
for identity.
You were made…
to be ruled.
In the end…
you will always kneel.
Not to men like you.
There are no men like me.
There are always men like you.
Look to your elder, people.
Let him be an example.
You know, the last time
I was in Germany…
and saw a man standing
above everybody else…
we ended up disagreeing.
The soldier.
The man out of time.
I'm not the one who's out of time.
Loki, drop the weapon
and stand down.
Kneel.
Not today!
The guy's all over the place.
Agent Romanoff.
You miss me?
Make your move,
Reindeer Games.
Good move.
Mr. Stark.
Captain.
Is he saying anything?
Not a word.
Just get him here.
We're low on time.
I don't like it.
What, Rock of Ages
giving up so easily?
I don't remember it being that easy.
This guy packs a wallop.
Still, you are pretty spry
for an older fellow.
What's your thing, Pilates?
What?
It's like calisthenics.
You might have missed
a couple of things, you know.
Doing time as a Capsicle.
Fury didn't tell me
he was calling you in.
Yeah, there is a lot of things Fury
doesn't tell you.
Where's this coming from?
What's the matter?
Are you scared of a little lightning?
I'm not overly fond of what follows.
What are you doing?
And now there is that guy.
Another Asgardian?
- That guy's a friendly?
- Doesn't matter.
If he frees Loki or kills him,
the Tesseract's lost.
Stark, we need a plan of attack!
I have a plan. Attack.
I'd sit this one out, Cap.
I don't see how I can.
These guys come from legend.
They're basically gods.
There's only one God, ma'am.
And I'm pretty sure
he doesn't dress like that.
Where is the Tesseract?
I missed you, too.
Do I look to be in a gaming mood?
You should thank me.
With the Bifrost gone,
how much dark energy…
did the Allfather have
to muster to conjure you here…
to your precious Earth?
I thought you dead.
Did you mourn?
We all did.
Our father…
Your father.
He did tell you my true parentage,
did he not?
We were raised together.
We played together,
we fought together.
Do you remember none of that?
I remember a shadow.
Living in the shade of your greatness.
I remember you tossing me
into an abyss.
I was and should be king!
So you take the world
I love as a recompense…
for your imagined slights?
No.
The Earth is under my protection, Loki.
And you're doing
a marvelous job with that.
The humans slaughter each other
in droves while you idly fret.
I mean to rule them,
as why should I not?
You think yourself above them?
Well, yes.
Then you miss the truth
of ruling, brother.
A throne would suit you ill.
I've seen worlds
you've never known about!
I have grown…
Odinson, in my exile.
I have seen the true power
of the Tesseract…
and when I Wield it…
Who showed you this power?
Who controls the would-be king?
- I am a king!
- Not here!
You give up the Tesseract!
You give up this poisonous dream!
Come home.
I don't have it.
You need the Cube to bring me home.
But I've sent it off, I know not where.
Listen well brother.
I'm listening.
Do not touch me again.
Then don't take my stuff.
You have no idea
what you're dealing with.
Shakespeare in the Park?
Doth Mother know…
you weareth her drapes?
This is beyond you, metal man.
Loki will face Asgardian justice.
He gives up the Cube,
he's all yours.
Until then…
stay out of the way.
Tourist.
Ok.
Power at 400% capacity.
How about that?
Hey!
That's enough.
Now, I don't know
what you plan on doing here.
I've come here to put an end
to Loki's schemes.
Then prove it.
Put that hammer down.
Yeah. No.
Bad call. He loves his…
You want me to put the hammer down?
Are we done, here?